---
layout: guide
title: How to think clearly and make better decisions
location: San Francisco
filename: think.textile
published: February 21, 2011
modified: April 21, 2011
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

h2. 1. Know less, think more

Being "smart" conflates thinking (a skill) with knowing (a state). While there are some benefits to being more knowledgable than others, I'd suggest that our generation presently overrates knowing and underrates thinking. As such, you should focus—as this article does—on improving your thinking. 

Differentiating between thinking and knowing will allow you to (1) "discard false or stale knowledge":http://lesswrong.com/lw/k5/cached_thoughts/ more effectively and to your advantage; and, (2) spend your time more effectively by "avoiding knowledge-gathering exercises":http://www.overcomingbias.com/2010/11/bah-sophistication.html disguised as intelligence-building exercises.

h2. 2. Be clear

Why? Disciplined communication seems to lead to disciplined thought. If you communicate ineffectively, it will be difficult for others to scrutinize your thoughts.

How? Study http://www.ai.uga.edu/mc/WriteThinkLearn.pdf . Avoid ambiguity. Ask yourself "did this person understand exactly what I said"? If there was "a miscommunication", blame yourself and attempt to identify the source of the confusion. 

h2. 3. Learn how to doubt

h3. Resources:

* "Making Beliefs Pay Rent":http://lesswrong.com/lw/i3/making_beliefs_pay_rent_in_anticipated_experiences/
* "How To Actually Change Your Mind":http://wiki.lesswrong.com/wiki/How_To_Actually_Change_Your_Mind (multiple articles)
* "The Martial Art of Rationality":http://lesswrong.com/lw/gn/the_martial_art_of_rationality/
* "Twelve Virtues of Rationality":http://yudkowsky.net/rational/virtues
* "How to doubt":http://www.overcomingbias.com/2011/01/how-to-doubt.html

h2. 4. Understand fallacies and cognitive biases

h3. Resources:

* Charlie Munger: The Psychology of Human Misjudgment ("pdf":http://www.law.indiana.edu/instruction/profession/doc/16_1.pdf and "audio recording":http://files.arunbansal.com/audio/MungerMono.mp3)
* "The Nizkor Project":http://www.nizkor.org/features/fallacies/
* "Cognitive Biases - A Visual Study Guide":http://www.scribd.com/doc/30548590/Cognitive-Biases-A-Visual-Study-Guide

h2. 5. Understand signaling

h3. Resources:

* "Excess Signaling":http://www.overcomingbias.com/2007/01/excess_signalin.html
* "Signaling Math":http://www.overcomingbias.com/2009/02/signaling-math.html
* "Why Impress Friends?":http://www.overcomingbias.com/2010/10/why-impress-friends.html
* "Opinion Warning Signs":http://www.overcomingbias.com/2010/09/opinion-warning-signs.html
* "Who Signals least?":http://www.overcomingbias.com/2010/08/who-signals-least.html

h2. 6. Identify and seek out scrutinizers, understand how to disagree with them

h3. Resources:

* "Are Disagreements Honest?":http://hanson.gmu.edu/deceive.pdf
* "Aumann's agreement theorem":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aumann's_agreement_theorem
* "Agreeing to disagree":http://www.jstor.org/stable/2958591

h2. 7. Be a meta-cogitator. Form models of thought, apply/question them continuously

h3. Resources:

* "Munger's Worldy Wisdom":http://www.paladinvest.com/pifiles/MungersWorldlyWisdom.htm
* "Kahneman Master Class: A Short Course in Thinking About Thinking":http://www.edge.org/3rd_culture/kahneman07/kahneman07_index.html
* "An Intuitive Explanation of Bayes' Theorem":http://yudkowsky.net/rational/bayes
